Now that we have something selected
with D3, let's go ahead and
bind some data to it.
And so that we can kind of start
drawing things with our data.
So let's take this kind of
random array of five numbers.
And then in this cell,
we've actually bound that data
to our SVG to different selections.
And so, let's again together,
look through the cell and
try on commenting different things and
see what that D3 selection looks like.
And so the very first thing we'll
do is we will go ahead and see.
We're going to select all of
the rectangles in our SVG.
And we're going to call dot datum and
pass in our bar data,
this array of five numbers.
And so what we'll see here is that
in groups, we have just that first
rectangle element and then inside
we'll see that this underscore data
and we have the whole array
bound to this one rectangle.
And so when you hear someone
talk about like D3 and
data binding in D3, and
this is what's happening under the hood,
which is that D3 goes and actually creates
this underscore underscore data property
in the elements, in the DOM elements.
So if you take a look at,
this is what you might
see if you're working
outside of Observable.
If you are, for example,
working on your own index HTML file or
something and you want to be you want
to debug and you console log, this is
what you might see which is there's the
groups and there's your first rectangle.
And then within that you'll have all of
these like properties on the rectangle and
if you scroll all the way to the bottom,
you'll see that there is
this underscore data property right here
and it will have your bound data on it.
So whenever you're like not sure what
data has been bound to your like,
particular DOM element, and
this is a really great way to check.
And so another way if you don't want to
console log in your code is if you like,
select and
if you select the element that you
want to inspect and
I think it's console dot direct,
yeah, dir dollar sign zero and
that will give you the DOM element.
Or kind of the properties for
the DOM element that you
highlighted and so you can see it, you
can potentially inspect it that way also.
So that's what dot datum looks like.
Now let's take a look at if we selected,
oops.
If we selected all of
the rectangles in our SVG,
and bound our array of five numbers, let's
see what happens if we call it dot datum.
Here we have our five rectangle elements.
And you can see that we have
the same array of five numbers
bound on every single one of them.
And finally, let's take a look at what
if we selected all the rectangles and
call it dot data on it.
Then what we get is in groups, we still
get that array of five rectangle elements.
But now, noticed that the difference is,
instead of each of these rectangle
elements having the array of five numbers
they each have one element
of the data array.
So each rectangle now has
one value of the data array.
So the first one has 45,
the second one has 67, and so on.
So if we want to illustrate
what's going on here, for
dot datum if we select just one dot datum,
we are basically binding
the whole data onto one of them.
If we select all the rectangles and
do dot datum,
we are binding the whole
data array to all of them.
And finally,
if we select all the rectangles and
called dot data, we are binding
the individual data elements to
the individual rectangle elements.